# ConMan: Configuration-file Manager

ConMan is tool for managing dotfiles and other config files on multiple
unix systems, each requiring largely the same set of files but with
minor changes in each location. The system is built on the m4 macro
processor which is widely installed and reasonably powerful.

## Tutorial

Configuration/dot file templates should be placed in
`ConMan/configs/*.m4`. In the simplest case this requires just a single
modification. For example:

    CONFIG_FILE(my bash rc, ~/.bashrc)

    # bashrc continues as-per-normal below...

This defines the contents of `~/.bashrc` for all machines. Nice and
straight forward. Note: as this is still a 'normal' m4 script you must
ensure that templates don't accidentally trigger any m4 functionality.

Obviously this isn't very useful as we want to make things only appear
for certain machines. Say we have a config file we only want on machines
in my university department, we can make the config file conditional
like so:

    CONFIG_FILE(ARCADE Settings, ~/.arcaderc, UNI)

    # ...configuration file for some university software here...

The extra argument here (`UNI`) is an expression saying which computers
this file should be present on. See the 'Defining Computers' section to
see how you define these names.

Given that your dotfiles are also now in m4 you can use other macros to
clean up your configs. Some macros are provided by ConMan to help make
fine-grained conditional inclusion easier:

    CONFIG_FILE(Example File, ~/.examplerc)

    These lines appear on all computers (as usual).

    ON_COMPUTER(LAPTOP)
        These lines only appear on my laptop's version of exaple RC.
        How lovely!
    ELSE_COMPUTER()
        These lines only appear on other computers' versions.
    END_COMPUTER()

    IF_COMPUTER(LAPTOP|UNI_RESEARCH_DOMAIN,
        `only appears on laptop & uni on the research domain',
        `appears everywhere else')

Finally, it is also worth noting that you can have multiple files
defined in one template. For example, your bashrc and bashprofile all in
one template:

    CONFIG_FILE(my bashrc, ~/.bashrc)

    # Stuff from your bashrc goes here. Maybe you define/use some handy m4 macros?

    CONFIG_FILE(my bashprofile, ~/.bashprofile)

    # Stuff for the bash profile goes here (still the same file!). Maybe you can
    # use some of those handy macros again here too?

### Defining Computers

A list of all the computers which your config files might apply to
should be defined in the 'global' configuration file `ConMan/config.m4`
like so:

    DEFINE_COMPUTER(LAPTOP)
    DEFINE_COMPUTER(DESKTOP)
    DEFINE_COMPUTER(UNI_TEACHING_DOMAIN)
    DEFINE_COMPUTER(UNI_RESEARCH_DOMAIN)

It is also possible to group combinations of computers (and groups)
under a common label. For example, you can add:

    DEFINE_GROUP(PERSONAL, LAPTOP | DESKTOP)
    DEFINE_GROUP(UNI,      UNI_RESEARCH_DOMAIN | UNI_TEACHING_DOMAIN)

Each computer also has a 'local' configuration file
`ConMan/local_config.m4` which simply defines which computer this
actually is:

    SET_COMPUTER(LAPTOP)

### Installing Your Configurations

Just run `./update`. You will be warned about any configuration files that were
not generated by ConMan, or files that have been changed since they were last
generated; these files will not be written.

All arguments passed to the `update` script will passed to all m4 commands.
This is mostly useful for defining variables used by your configuration files;
see the git plugin for an example.

## Plugins

ConMan provides a simple plugin system: all `.m4` files in `plugins` will be
included before your config files, and all `.sh` files will be sourced by the
update script. This makes it easy to share m4 macros and bash functions between
multiple config files.

Take a look at `plugins/git.sh` and `plugins/git.m4` for an example.

### Plugin: Git Repo Fetching

This provides a macro `GIT_REPO(local_dir, repo_url)`, which requests that the
given git repo is kept up-to-date. For example, here it is fetching various VIM
plugins:

    CONFIG_FILE(my vim configs, ~/.vimrc)

    " stuff for my .vimrc goes here as usual

    GIT_REPO(~/.vim/bundle/pathogen, git://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen.git)
    GIT_REPO(~/.vim/bundle/fugitive, git://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive.git)
    GIT_REPO(~/.vim/bundle/ctrlp,    git://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim.git)

This functionality can be disabled by passing `-D DISABLE_GIT` to `./update`.

## Health Warnings

There are a few thins you should be aware of when using ConMan.
Hopefully these should be resolved over time but for now...

1.  It is worth mentioning a second time: your templates are just
    regular m4 and so must be careful to avoid any keywords etc. A list
    of extra keywords to avoid due to ConMan can be found by reading its
    source (sorry...).

2.  Your m4 templates actually get parsed 1+n times (where n is the
    number of config files defined within it). This is due to the
    current bodge being used to get multiple files (and their file
    names) out of an m4 file. This may change to use a different bodge
    at some time in the future which solves this...

3.  Be very careful using m4's `divert` command in your m4 scripts...
    Hopefully this will be cleaned up in the future...

## About

MIT licensed; see `LICENSE`.

Original implementation by [Tom Nixon](https://github.com/tomjnixon).

Documentation by [Jonathan Heathcote](https://github.com/mossblaser).
